# BC
Classification of breast cancer samples using multi-omics features

#Data

For this study, DNA methylation and RNA Seq data was downloaded from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA-BRCA dataset). The DNA methylation dataset includes 895 samples, while the RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) data comprises 1231 samples. There are 862 overlapping samples between the two datasets, consisting of 778 tumor samples and 84 normal samples. Out of the 778 tumor samples, 34 were classified as the normal-like breast cancer subtype and were excluded due to the small sample size. DNA methylation data consists of methylation levels of 485577 CpG sites from Illumina Infinium Human Methylation 450K array platform and raw sequence read counts of 19962 protein coding genes (mRNA) and 16901 long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) from RNA sequencing (RNA Seq) experiment from 828 breast cancer patients (744 tumor, 84 normal). Four methylation datasets, GSE141338 (n=33), GSE72245 (n=118), GSE72251 (n=117) and GSE84207 (n=252) were downloaded from NCBI-GEO for which PAM50 labels were available. The DNA methylation and RNA Seq data from TCGA-BRCA was used for identifying subtype specific biomarkers, and their predictive ability was assessed on the integrated DNA methylation dataset (TCGA-BRCA+ 4 GEO datasets) consisting of a total number of 1264 breast cancer samples.

#Preprocessing

For the analysis three groups of TCGA-BRCA samples were constructed: samples having ER (538), PR (534), and HER2 (535) receptor status labels, respectively. Preprocessing of methylation data was carried out on each of these three groups using RnBeads to remove probes containing overlapping SNPs, context non-specific probes, cross-reactive probes, probes on sex chromosomes, and probes of low significance (p ≥ 0.05). Probes containing more than 30% missing values were removed and for the remaining probes, imputation of missing values was performed by ‘knn’ method using impute package. Beta mixture quantile normalization (BMIQ) was used for type-bias correction and methylumi.noob for background intensity correction. Similarly, the pre-processing of the four NCBI-GEO datasets was performed. For the classification task, the common CpG sites were considered from TCGA-BRCA and NCBI-GEO datasets for batch correction using combat function in SVA package.
Preprocessing of RNA-Seq raw read counts of 19,962 protein-coding genes and 16,901 long non-coding transcripts was carried out using DESeq2. The preprocessing steps include removal of genes with less than 10 reads in total and median-of-ratios based normalization to adjust the counts within and across the samples.

